these also are Proverbs of Solomon which
these also are Proverbs of Solomon which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied
the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied
the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied it is the glory of God to conceal a
it is the glory of God to conceal a
it is the glory of God to conceal a matter but the glory of kings is to
matter but the glory of kings is to
matter but the glory of kings is to search out a matter as the heavens for
search out a matter as the heavens for
search out a matter as the heavens for height and the earth for depth so the
height and the earth for depth so the
height and the earth for depth so the heart of Kings is unsearchable take away
heart of Kings is unsearchable take away
heart of Kings is unsearchable take away the dross from silver and it will go to
the dross from silver and it will go to
the dross from silver and it will go to the silversmith for jewelry take away
the silversmith for jewelry take away
the silversmith for jewelry take away the wicked from before the King and his
the wicked from before the King and his
the wicked from before the King and his throne will be established in
throne will be established in
throne will be established in righteousness do not exalt yourself in
righteousness do not exalt yourself in
righteousness do not exalt yourself in the presence of the king and do not
the presence of the king and do not
the presence of the king and do not stand in the place of the great for it
stand in the place of the great for it
stand in the place of the great for it is better that he say to you come up
is better that he say to you come up
is better that he say to you come up here then that you should be put lower
here then that you should be put lower
here then that you should be put lower in the presence of the Prince whom your
in the presence of the Prince whom your
in the presence of the Prince whom your eyes have seen do not go hastily to
eyes have seen do not go hastily to
eyes have seen do not go hastily to court for what will you do in the end
court for what will you do in the end
court for what will you do in the end when your neighbor has put you to shame
when your neighbor has put you to shame
when your neighbor has put you to shame debate your case with your neighbor and
debate your case with your neighbor and
debate your case with your neighbor and do not disclose the secret to another
do not disclose the secret to another
do not disclose the secret to another lest he who hears it
lest he who hears it
lest he who hears it expose your shame and your reputation be
expose your shame and your reputation be
expose your shame and your reputation be ruined a word fitly spoken is like
ruined a word fitly spoken is like
ruined a word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver
apples of gold in settings of silver
apples of gold in settings of silver like an earring of gold and an ornament
like an earring of gold and an ornament
like an earring of gold and an ornament of fine gold is a wise rebuke to an
of fine gold is a wise rebuke to an
of fine gold is a wise rebuke to an obedient ear like the cold of snow in
obedient ear like the cold of snow in
obedient ear like the cold of snow in time of harvest is a faithful messenger
time of harvest is a faithful messenger
time of harvest is a faithful messenger to those who send him for he refreshes
to those who send him for he refreshes
to those who send him for he refreshes the soul of his masters whoever falsely
the soul of his masters whoever falsely
the soul of his masters whoever falsely boasts of giving is like clouds and wind
boasts of giving is like clouds and wind
boasts of giving is like clouds and wind without rain
without rain
without rain by long forbearance a ruler is persuaded
by long forbearance a ruler is persuaded
by long forbearance a ruler is persuaded and a gentle tongue breaks a bone have
and a gentle tongue breaks a bone have
and a gentle tongue breaks a bone have you found honey eat only as much as you
you found honey eat only as much as you
you found honey eat only as much as you need lest you be filled with it and
need lest you be filled with it and
need lest you be filled with it and vomit seldom set foot in your neighbor's
vomit seldom set foot in your neighbor's
vomit seldom set foot in your neighbor's house lest he become wary of you and
house lest he become wary of you and
house lest he become wary of you and hate you
hate you
hate you a man who bears false witness against
a man who bears false witness against
a man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a club a sword and
his neighbor is like a club a sword and
his neighbor is like a club a sword and a sharp arrow confidence in an
a sharp arrow confidence in an
a sharp arrow confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is
unfaithful man in time of trouble is
unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a bad tooth and a foot out of joint
like a bad tooth and a foot out of joint
like a bad tooth and a foot out of joint like one who takes away a garment in
like one who takes away a garment in
like one who takes away a garment in cold weather and like vinegar on soda is
cold weather and like vinegar on soda is
cold weather and like vinegar on soda is one who sings songs to a heavy heart if
one who sings songs to a heavy heart if
one who sings songs to a heavy heart if your enemy is hungry give him bread to
your enemy is hungry give him bread to
your enemy is hungry give him bread to eat and if he is thirsty give him water
eat and if he is thirsty give him water
eat and if he is thirsty give him water to drink for so you will heap coals of
to drink for so you will heap coals of
to drink for so you will heap coals of fire on his head and the Lord will
fire on his head and the Lord will
fire on his head and the Lord will reward you
reward you
reward you the north wind brings forth rain and a
the north wind brings forth rain and a
the north wind brings forth rain and a backbiting tongue an angry countenance
backbiting tongue an angry countenance
backbiting tongue an angry countenance it is better to dwell in a corner of a
it is better to dwell in a corner of a
it is better to dwell in a corner of a housetop than in a house shared with a
housetop than in a house shared with a
housetop than in a house shared with a contentious woman as cold water to a
contentious woman as cold water to a
contentious woman as cold water to a weary soul so is good news from a far
weary soul so is good news from a far
weary soul so is good news from a far country a righteous man who falters
country a righteous man who falters
country a righteous man who falters before the wicked is like a murky spring
before the wicked is like a murky spring
before the wicked is like a murky spring and a polluted well it is not good to
and a polluted well it is not good to
and a polluted well it is not good to eat much honey
eat much honey
eat much honey so to seek one's own glory is not glory
so to seek one's own glory is not glory
so to seek one's own glory is not glory whoever has no rule over his own spirit
whoever has no rule over his own spirit
whoever has no rule over his own spirit is like a city broken down without walls
is like a city broken down without walls
is like a city broken down without walls [Music]